Seasonal Spotlights: Winter 2018 article (#2137)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2019.md

---
layout: post
title: "Seasonal Spotlights: Winter 2019"
date: 2019-03-31 22:00:00 +0000
---

> Meanwhile the wind blows warmer and the sun feels nice, we still have some beatmaps for you to feel cool. Do not be afraid though, come and take a look at our selection of mapsets from the Winter Season and earn a fancy new medal for yourself!

Author: ```suggestion
The wind's blowing warmer and the sun's feeling nicer, but we still have some cool beatmaps from the winter to show off! Come take a look at our selection of mapsets from last season, and earn a fancy new medal for yourself by playing them all!
```

- **osu!mania:** [\[Crz\]Satori](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7082178), [Stink God](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7381289) and [Cryolien](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1626983)

# Winter 2019 Spotlights

### Navigation

- [osu!](#osu)
- [osu!taiko](#taiko)
- [osu!catch](#catch)
- [osu!mania](#mania)

## <a name="osu" id="osu"></a>osu!

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/osu/nice-for-what.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/873829)

Despite hip-hop being a relatively rare genre in osu!, [UndeadCapulet](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2523533) set out to map Drake’s “Nice For What” in his unique style. The map uses lots of careful object placements and repetition to isolate unique changes in the song. From the quiet beginning to the intense chorus, UndeadCapulet has the player's cursor at their fingertips and the song in their grasp. 

UndeadCapulet's perseverance, despite all the backlash they received, proves to everyone what their style is nice for. The other half of the set by [Aeril](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4334976) also adds a similar flavour to the song with their style. These mappers unified to make this song nice for people at every skill level.

> [![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/osu/houkou-orpheus.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/879051)

Reviewer: icekalt capitalization is wrong

Each map is in itself tied together gracefully enriching the song taking it to greater heights, and with a generous spread of difficulty the set is giving every player a change to to enjoy this masterpiece!

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/osu/kyoumen.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/764481)

[Smokeman](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2140676) has always been a master of capturing the beauty in the songs he maps. His rendition of "Kyoumen no Nami [Orchestra Ver.] is no different. The map perfectly matches the very serene parts of the song with low density and low slider velocity. Then explodes with a quicker slider velocity and more difficult movements in the chorus which truly make the map shine. 

Don't forget to look at the wondrous storyboard made by [LowAccuracySS](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7306763) & [Darky1](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3372928)!

> [![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/osu/bohemian.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/912844)

Reviewer: missing icekalt in creators

Author: That is something I can't fix now. I rather not get a BSOD from photoshop

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/osu/lemon.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/861466)

[Loneight](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/663131) is back in spotlights! This time they brought their map of Yonezu Kenshi's "Lemon". Loneight uses a unique combination of spacing and slider velocity that displays a lot of control and makes the map feel exactly how it looks. Loneight takes you through this swing-beat song on an emotional journey: meticulous through the calmer sections; open and expressive on the choruses. 

And if you are introducing any friends to the game, this Normal diff is able to take the same emotion from the top diff and apply it for newer players. This set is for everyone!

> [![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/osu/catanoph.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/775846)

Reviewer: ryuusei aika should probably go first as the set owner

[Myxomatosis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2202645) put his spin on Radiohead's "My Iron Lung", an alternative rock classic which finally has it's chance to see the light of day on osu. Myxo uses challenging yet intuitive movement concepts making the map exciting till the end and players yearning for more!

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/osu/gin.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/902948)

[rrtyui](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/352328) brings us a new test of skill on "Gin no Kaze" by wa. remixed celas, sparking a new life into the ideas of Fear's version. As the song slowly reveals itself, the map follows suit to prepare the player for its climax. There, the small circle size is pushed to its limits with an incessant series of unusually precise slider motions. 

Even though hard, this map is also subtle. Combining clever mapping decisions worthy of an essay, rrtyui shows that they have a deep understanding of all layers in mapping. Those who need to improve a bit more to take on the highest difficulty can definitely find a similar challenge in [Uberzolik](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1314547)'s another.

> [![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/osu/first-town.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/888513)

Reviewer: milan delis sing wrong capitalization

> Staying true to the chiptune-y video game style of Camellia's First Town Of This Journey, [ScubDomino](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8972308) plasters densely syncopated slider patterning on a beautifully scenic 8-bit background he drew himself. Every difficulty, featuring guest mappers [Milan-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1052994), [Sing](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3795679), and [Delis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1603923), follows similar conventions, using sliderstreams and overlaid sliders to give the entire mapset a cohesive motif culminating in a spectacular interpretation through ScubDomino's [Adventure] difficulty. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Staying true to the chiptune-y video game style of Camellia's First Town Of This Journey, [jungkyuyoung](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8972308) plasters densely syncopated slider patterning on a beautifully scenic 8-bit background he drew himself. Every difficulty, featuring guest mappers [Milan-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1052994), [Sing](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3795679), and [Delis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1603923), follows similar conventions, using sliderstreams and overlaid sliders to give the entire mapset a cohesive motif culminating in a spectacular interpretation through ScubDomino's [Adventure] difficulty. 
```

From the creator of multiple breakcore charts as well as a multi-variety of most peculiar genres, [-Kazu-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/920861) shows up in Winter Spotlights with his interpretation of Cranky's "Feline, The White...". Kazu went for a more unconventional approach this time around, though! He gave the creation a distinct purpose, a concept. Every bit of this beatmap can be correlated to a set of concepts, which is helped and represented by the song's pacing. Does it have upbeat jazz? Then give it high slider velocity! Does it have classic breakbeats? Then repeat the background pattern! So on and so forth.

It does not end here, though. The beatmap itself is challenging on its own! Apart from the concept mapping, Kazu also made sure to squeeze every element of the music as much as possible, resulting in several mixed snaps (it's still breakcore) that will keep all players on their toes!

All in all, for the sheer capacity of interpretation, the outstanding musical ear the mapper shows with this creation, and the beatmap itself being also incredibly fun to play, Feline, The White... earns its spot on these seasonal Spotlights very fairly!

> [![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/taiko/give-it-up.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/618352)

Reviewer: maybe add nofool and Lno ? not sure if they count as creators but they are in the tags of the mapset

Besides the patterns, Rocma also showcases his outstanding hitsounding skills by using several hitsounding sets. The map is for all players from catch newbies to masters, try to find out your ability while enjoying the set!

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/catch/egoism.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/717720)

Egoism 440 showcases a variety of patterns different mappers use hosted by [Ascendance](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2931883). Specifically, the usage of the patterns in the difficulties Challenge and Double Challenge show how a "Challenge" map in osu!catch can be similar yet so different. If you aren't experienced enough to try those two difficulties, don't worry; all difficulties provide a challenge through unique patterns often unseen in other ranked maps.

## <a name="mania" id="mania"></a>osu!mania

[![](/wiki/shared/news/2019-03-31-beatmap-spotlights-winter-2018/mania/citrus.jpg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/854717)

> [K a b i -](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6209713) strikes again with another long note-based kamome sano mapset! The top difficulty, Sweet Drop, utilizes an interesting concept where intensity of the musical instruments assigned to the long notes is mirrored with the gaps between the long notes, as can be seen multiple times. The difficulty is balanced throughout in terms of density while also representing the music in a very consistent and straightforward yet unique fashion. Not only that, but this difficulty does not have very much strain and discomfort in the long note-heavy sections, and has very sparing use of minijacks, which makes it very player-friendly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[\_Kobii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6209713) strikes again with another long note-based kamome sano mapset! The top difficulty, Sweet Drop, utilizes an interesting concept where intensity of the musical instruments assigned to the long notes is mirrored with the gaps between the long notes, as can be seen multiple times. The difficulty is balanced throughout in terms of density while also representing the music in a very consistent and straightforward yet unique fashion. Not only that, but this difficulty does not have very much strain and discomfort in the long note-heavy sections, and has very sparing use of minijacks, which makes it very player-friendly.
```
